— can you please explain your current roles and responsibilities 


-- do you know the server build process and did you work on different hardware types and what are they 
kickstart network installation using pxe server 

Kickstart installations can be performed using a local DVD, a local hard drive, NFS, FTP, HTTP, or HTTPS.
To use Kickstart, you must:
1)Create a Kickstart file.(anaconda-ks.cfg)
2)Make the Kickstart file available on removable media, a hard drive or a network location
   Copy kikckstart configuration file to ftp server path  (var/ftp/pub)
3)validate kickstart with ks validator
    ksvalidator anaconda-ks.cfg
4)Create boot media, which will be used to begin the installation
Add Kikstart Installation Label to PXE Server Configuration 
 nano /var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg/default
5)From boot menu press f8 and select kikcstart option with pxe server.
6)Start the Kickstart installation.

-- Do you use cobbler or general pxe sever to install OS
pxe server preboot execution enviornment

--after os installation ...how did you bring up the system into the network
Every network interface has its own configuration file in the /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts directory. Each interface has a configuration file named ifcfg-<interface-name>X, where X is the number of the interface, starting with zero or 1 depending upon the naming convention in use; for example /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0 for the first Ethernet interface.

Most of the other files in the /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts directory are scripts used to start, stop and perform various network configuration activities.


-- did you work on any file system issues 

In Linux, there are many file systems:

Ext, Ext2, Ext3, Ext4, JFS, XFS, btrfs, ufs, autofs, devpts, ntfs and swap.

fsck commad to check and repair file systems


-- How do you debug performance issues  
Performance problems are caused by bottlenecks in one or more hardware subsystems, depending on the profile of resource usage on your system. Some elements to consider (in roughly sorted order):

buggy software
disk usage df -h
memory usage vmstat
CPU cycles  top
network bandwidth iftop,iptraf
 
-- Do u have any experience in  Scripts ? What are they
python scripts

— I need to get the 500 servers Ip’s 
#!/bin/bash

START=0
END=100

for I in $(seq $START $END)
do
    echo "192.168.0.$I"
done

---Ilo Interface Names —   

-- how do you change the file system values
 chmod 

---What are the two files of crontab command?
cron.allow – It decides which users need to be permitted from using crontab command.
cron.deny – It decides which users need to be prevented from using crontab command.

What command needs to be used to take the backup?

 tar

How to debug the problems encountered in shell script/program?

Using “set -x” we can enable debugging in the script.

Have you ever used ansible playbook ...
Playbooks   — 

 what is the best approach to append a line in a file 
 >>
 cat

Sysctl parameters 

sysctl is used to modify kernel parameters at runtime. The parameters available are those listed under /proc/sys/. Procfs is required for sysctl support in Linux. You can use sysctl to both read and write sysctl data.

Ansible  or puppet 

How do we manage virtual environment in current 

How do you manage the changes 

Tell about your recent trouble shooting things ?

How do make the grub changes permanent  in OEL6 and OEl7?

How do they patch servers 

Rpm bundle 

Give me a scenario — 5 app location …what application is using how much memory 


How do we add routing on the server 
  route add 
How do we check the routing table 
   route -n or netstat -rn

How To Check Open Ports On A Remote Server Without Netcat Or Nmap Linux Command?
lsof -i -p -n
netstat -tnlp
What  do u think If SE linux enableD or permissive ? What is the current environment 


What is the current version of Vcenter 
vcenter 6.7
 
